outline files kubelet uses (#47425)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/reference/node/kubelet-files.md

---
content_type: "reference"
title: Files written and read by the kubelet

> weight: 40

Reviewer: `content/en/docs/reference/node/node-labels.md` uses 40 and we like the sort to be stable even if the title changes, so:
```suggestion
weight: 42
```

---

The {{< glossary_tooltip text="kubelet" term_id="kubelet" >}} is mostly a stateless
process running on a Kubernetes {{< glossary_tooltip text="node" term_id="node" >}}.
This document outlines files that kubelet reads and writes.

Kubelet uses the {{< glossary_tooltip text="control plane" term_id="control-plane" >}} as
the source of truth on what needs to run on the Node, and the
{{<glossary_tooltip text="container runtime" term_id="container-runtime">}} to retrieve
the current state of containers. Kubelet also relies on reading
cgroups and various system files to collect metrics. However, there are still a few other files
that are used by the kubelet.

> ## Files

Author: done

#### Kubelet configuration files

The path to the kubelet configuration file can be configured
using the command line argument `--config`. kubelet also supports
[drop-in configuration files](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubelet-config-file/#kubelet-conf-d)
to enhance configuration.

#### Certificates

Certificates are typically located at `/var/lib/kubelet/pki`,
but can be configured using the `--cert-dir` kubelet command line argument.
Names of certificate files are also configurable.

#### Systemd unit settings

When kubelet is running as a systemd unit, some kubelet configuration may be declared
in systemd unit settings file. Typically it includes:

- command line arguments to [run kubelet](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet/)
- environment variables, used by kubelet or [configuring golang runtime](https://pkg.go.dev/runtime#hdr-Environment_Variables)

### State

#### Manifests

Manifests for static pods are typically located in `/etc/kubernetes/manifests`.
Location can be configured using the `staticPodPath` kubelet configuration option.

#### Checkpoint files

All resource managers keep the mapping of Pods to allocated resources in state files.

> State files located in the kubelet's root directory,
> typically `/var/lib/kubelet`. Kubelet root directory can be configured

Reviewer: Here's how I'd write it:
```suggestion
State files are located in the kubelet's base directory, also termed the _root directory_
(but not the same as `/`, the node root directory). You can configure the base directory
for the kubelet
```

(aside: I wonder if we can deprecate `--root-directory` in favor of a `kubeletBasePath` configuration option, as it is hard to disambiguate the two meanings of _root_)

using the kubelet command line argument `--root-dir`.

Names of files:

- `memory_manager_state` for the Memory Manager
- `cpu_manager_state` for the CPU Manager
- `kubelet_internal_checkpoint` for Device Manager

> - `dra_manager_state` for DRA

Author: added the best links I found. We are not talking much about state files in those docs

> - `dra_manager_state` for DRA

Author: good follow up item

> #### Pod Status checkpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Pod status checkpoint storage {#pod-status-manager-state}
```

{{< feature-state feature_gate_name="InPlacePodVerticalScaling" >}}

> The pod status is being checkpointed to implement the Pod resize feature.

Reviewer: Try something like:
```markdown
If your cluster has
[in-place Pod vertical scaling](/docs/concepts/workloads/autoscaling/#n-place-resizing)
enabled ([feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)
name `InPlacePodVerticalScaling`), then the kubelet stores a local record of Pod status.
```

Author: thanks, this is definitely better

The file name is `pod_status_manager_state` in kubelet root directory

> (`/var/lib/kubelet` or configure using `--root-dir`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(`/var/lib/kubelet` by default on Linux; configurable using `--root-dir`).
```

### Sockets

> Kubelet opens a few sockets as well as reading some other sockets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The kubelet communicates using local Unix-domain sockets. Some are sockets that the
kubelet listens on, and for other sockets the kubelet discovers them and then connects
as a client.
```

#### Container runtime

Kubelet communicates with the container runtime using socket configured via the
configuration parameters:

- `containerRuntimeEndpoint` for runtime operations
- `imageServiceEndpoint` for image management operations

The actual values of those endpoints depend on the container runtime being used.

#### Device plugins

> Kubelet exposes socket `/var/lib/kubelet/device-plugins/kubelet.sock` for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The kubelet exposes a socket at the path `/var/lib/kubelet/device-plugins/kubelet.sock` for
```

various [Device Plugins to register](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/device-plugins/#device-plugin-implementation).

When a device plugin registers itself, it provides its socket path for the kubelet to connect.

> The device plugin socket should be in the directory `/var/lib/kubelet/device-plugins`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The device plugin socket should be in the directory `device-plugins` within the kubelet base
directory. On a typical Linux node, this means `/var/lib/kubelet/device-plugins`.
```

> #### Pod Resources API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Pod resources API
```

[Pod Resources API](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/device-plugins/#monitoring-device-plugin-resources)

> will be exposed at the address `/var/lib/kubelet/pod-resources`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will be exposed at the path `/var/lib/kubelet/pod-resources`.
```

#### DRA and CSI plugins

> DRA and CSI plugins are located in `plugins_registry` in kubelet's root directory

Reviewer 2: Do you mean socket files?

Author: I thunk this is addressed

> DRA and CSI plugins are located in `plugins_registry` in kubelet's root directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The kubelet looks for socket files created by device or storage plugins, and then attempts to connect
to these sockets. The directory that the kubelet looks in is `plugins_registry` within the kubelet base
directory, so on a typical Linux node this means `/var/lib/kubelet/plugins_registry`.

The types of plugins that can place socket files into that directory are:

- CSI plugins
- DRA plugins
```

(typically `/var/lib/kubelet/plugins_registry`).

> ### Utility

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Locking

{{< feature-state state="alpha" for_k8s_version="v1.2" >}}

```

This might be older, but I think it comes from the 1.2 release.

### Device plugins

The kubelet exposes a socket at the path `/var/lib/kubelet/device-plugins/kubelet.sock` for
various [Device Plugins to register](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/device-plugins/#device-plugin-implementation).

When a device plugin registers itself, it provides its socket path for the kubelet to connect.

The device plugin socket should be in the directory `device-plugins` within the kubelet base
directory. On a typical Linux node, this means `/var/lib/kubelet/device-plugins`.

### Pod resources API

[Pod Resources API](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/device-plugins/#monitoring-device-plugin-resources)
will be exposed at the path `/var/lib/kubelet/pod-resources`.

### DRA and CSI plugins

The kubelet looks for socket files created by device or storage plugins, and then attempts to connect
to these sockets. The directory that the kubelet looks in is `plugins_registry` within the kubelet base
directory, so on a typical Linux node this means `/var/lib/kubelet/plugins_registry`.

The types of plugins that can place socket files into that directory are:

- CSI plugins
- DRA plugins

> (typically `/var/lib/kubelet/plugins_registry`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

(typically `/var/lib/kubelet/plugins_registry`).
```

the source of truth on what needs to run on the Node, and the
{{<glossary_tooltip text="container runtime" term_id="container-runtime">}} to retrieve
the current state of containers. So long as you provide a _kubeconfig_ (API client configuration)
to the kubelet, the kubelet does connect to your control plane; otherwise the node operates in
_standalone mode_.

On Linux the kubelet also relies on reading cgroups and various system files to collect metrics. 

There are also a few other files that are used by the kubelet as well as kubelet communicates using local Unix-domain sockets. Some are sockets that the
kubelet listens on, and for other sockets the kubelet discovers them and then connects
as a client.

## Configuration

### Kubelet configuration files

The path to the kubelet configuration file can be configured
using the command line argument `--config`. kubelet also supports
[drop-in configuration files](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubelet-config-file/#kubelet-conf-d)
to enhance configuration.

### Certificates

Certificates are typically located at `/var/lib/kubelet/pki`,
but can be configured using the `--cert-dir` kubelet command line argument.

> Names of certificate files are also configurable.

Reviewer: Optionally, mention that you might also find private keys.

Author: added

### Systemd unit settings

When kubelet is running as a systemd unit, some kubelet configuration may be declared
in systemd unit settings file. Typically it includes:

- command line arguments to [run kubelet](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet/)
- environment variables, used by kubelet or [configuring golang runtime](https://pkg.go.dev/runtime#hdr-Environment_Variables)

## State

### Manifests

Manifests for static pods are typically located in `/etc/kubernetes/manifests`.

> Location can be configured using the `staticPodPath` kubelet configuration option.

Reviewer: IMO, these are desired state (ie, configuration) rather than actual state.

Author: moved. I was debating with myself and don't feel strongly

---
content_type: "reference"
title: Local Files And Paths Used By The Kubelet
weight: 42
---

The {{< glossary_tooltip text="kubelet" term_id="kubelet" >}} is mostly a stateless
process running on a Kubernetes {{< glossary_tooltip text="node" term_id="node" >}}.
This document outlines files that kubelet reads and writes.

The kubelet typically uses the {{< glossary_tooltip text="control plane" term_id="control-plane" >}} as
the source of truth on what needs to run on the Node, and the
{{<glossary_tooltip text="container runtime" term_id="container-runtime">}} to retrieve
the current state of containers. So long as you provide a _kubeconfig_ (API client configuration)
to the kubelet, the kubelet does connect to your control plane; otherwise the node operates in
_standalone mode_.

> On Linux the kubelet also relies on reading cgroups and various system files to collect metrics.

Author: @marosset @jsturtevant anything else to mention here regarding Windows?

Reviewer 3: We read a few values from the registry; I am not sure if that is worth mentioning as its pretty common to do that.  Metrics are collected via system calls and perf counters on Windows.

Reviewer 4: We have a few spots where powershell is used for different volume mount operations

- https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/5c14a5779551f678dbb89e9ce2346b9aa5e81d87/pkg/volume/util/subpath/subpath_windows.go#L79
- https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/5c14a5779551f678dbb89e9ce2346b9aa5e81d87/pkg/volume/util/subpath/subpath_windows.go#L120-L121

Plus what is used by the node log query feature.

Do you think we shuold call that out @jsturtevant ?

Author: we added very generic language for now

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Windows nodes, the kubelet collects metrics via a different mechanism that does not rely on
paths.

```

Author: applied

There are also a few other files that are used by the kubelet as well as kubelet communicates using local Unix-domain sockets. Some are sockets that the
kubelet listens on, and for other sockets the kubelet discovers them and then connects
as a client.

> {{<note>}}

Author: @aravindhp please take a loook.

> {{<note>}}

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
{{< note >}}
```

Author: fixed

> This article lists path's as Linux paths, which maps to the Windows paths by adding a root disk `C:/` unless specified otherwise. For example, `/var/lib/kubelet/device-plugins` maps to `C:\var\lib\kubelet\device-plugins`.

Reviewer 5: we could highlight this with a panel or some other UI functionality

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
This article lists paths as Linux paths, which map to the Windows paths by adding a root disk `C:\` in place of `/`
(unless specified otherwise).
For example, `/var/lib/kubelet/device-plugins` maps to `C:\var\lib\kubelet\device-plugins`.
```

Author: thank you! This is definitely better wording!

> {{</note>}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{</ note >}}
```

Author: fixed

---
content_type: "reference"
title: Local Files And Paths Used By The Kubelet
weight: 42
---

The {{< glossary_tooltip text="kubelet" term_id="kubelet" >}} is mostly a stateless
process running on a Kubernetes {{< glossary_tooltip text="node" term_id="node" >}}.

> This document outlines files that kubelet reads and writes.

Reviewer 6: We should probably have a strong disclaimer about these implementation details not necessarily being stable / guaranteed?

Author: added a note below, good callout!

### Kubelet configuration files

The path to the kubelet configuration file can be configured
using the command line argument `--config`. kubelet also supports
[drop-in configuration files](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubelet-config-file/#kubelet-conf-d)
to enhance configuration.

### Certificates

Certificates and private keys are typically located at `/var/lib/kubelet/pki`,
but can be configured using the `--cert-dir` kubelet command line argument.
Names of certificate files are also configurable.

### Manifests

Manifests for static pods are typically located in `/etc/kubernetes/manifests`.
Location can be configured using the `staticPodPath` kubelet configuration option.

### Systemd unit settings

When kubelet is running as a systemd unit, some kubelet configuration may be declared
in systemd unit settings file. Typically it includes:

- command line arguments to [run kubelet](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet/)
- environment variables, used by kubelet or [configuring golang runtime](https://pkg.go.dev/runtime#hdr-Environment_Variables)

## State

### Checkpoint files

All resource managers keep the mapping of Pods to allocated resources in state files.

> State files are located in the kubelet's base directory, also termed the _root directory_

Reviewer 2: This is correct, but only for 3 of for below mentioned checkpoints: memory, cpu and dra manager. Device manager creates checkpoints in the same directory with socket files: /var/lib/kubelet/device-plugins/

Author: fixed

(but not the same as `/`, the node root directory). You can configure the base directory
for the kubelet
using the kubelet command line argument `--root-dir`.

Names of files:

- `memory_manager_state` for the [Memory Manager](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/memory-manager/)
- `cpu_manager_state` for the [CPU Manager](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/cpu-management-policies/)
- `kubelet_internal_checkpoint` for [Device Manager](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/device-plugins/#device-plugin-integration-with-the-topology-manager)
- `dra_manager_state` for [DRA](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/)

> ### Pod status checkpoint storage {#pod-status-manager-state}

Reviewer 2: Why this checkpoint is separated into its own  section? It's kept in the same directory as memory, cpu and dra manager checkpoints. I'd suggest to add it to the `Checkpoint files` section.

Author: fixed

Reviewer 2: It's still separated as far as I can see.
I proposed to add it to the list of checkpoints above, e.g. 

- `memory_manager_state` for the [Memory Manager](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/memory-manager/)
- `cpu_manager_state` for the [CPU Manager](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/cpu-management-policies/)
- `dra_manager_state` for [DRA](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/)
- `pod_manager_state` for Pod Status Manager with [in-place Pod vertical scaling](/docs/concepts/workloads/autoscaling/#in-place-resizing) enabled

various [Device Plugins to register](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/device-plugins/#device-plugin-implementation).

When a device plugin registers itself, it provides its socket path for the kubelet to connect.

The device plugin socket should be in the directory `device-plugins` within the kubelet base
directory. On a typical Linux node, this means `/var/lib/kubelet/device-plugins`.

### Pod resources API

[Pod Resources API](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/device-plugins/#monitoring-device-plugin-resources)
will be exposed at the path `/var/lib/kubelet/pod-resources`.

### DRA and CSI plugins

The kubelet looks for socket files created by device plugins managed via [DRA](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/)
or storage plugins, and then attempts to connect
to these sockets. The directory that the kubelet looks in is `plugins_registry` within the kubelet base
directory, so on a typical Linux node this means `/var/lib/kubelet/plugins_registry`.

The types of plugins that can place socket files into that directory are:

- CSI plugins

> - DRA plugins

Reviewer 2: + Device plugins can also register through the same mechanism: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/kubelet/kubelet.go#L1575-L1582

Author: wow, I didn't know. Thanks!

Reviewer: Looks resolved

---
content_type: "reference"
title: Local Files And Paths Used By The Kubelet
weight: 42
---

The {{< glossary_tooltip text="kubelet" term_id="kubelet" >}} is mostly a stateless
process running on a Kubernetes {{< glossary_tooltip text="node" term_id="node" >}}.
This document outlines files that kubelet reads and writes.

> {{ <note> }}

Reviewer 7: The note shortcode isn't working on the preview, this is the fix
```suggestion
{{< note >}}
```

This document is for informational purpose and not describing any guaranteed behaviors or APIs.
It lists resources used by the kubelet, which is an implementation detail and a subject to change at any release.

> {{ </note> }}

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
{{< /note >}}
```

The kubelet typically uses the {{< glossary_tooltip text="control plane" term_id="control-plane" >}} as
the source of truth on what needs to run on the Node, and the
{{<glossary_tooltip text="container runtime" term_id="container-runtime">}} to retrieve
the current state of containers. So long as you provide a _kubeconfig_ (API client configuration)
to the kubelet, the kubelet does connect to your control plane; otherwise the node operates in
_standalone mode_.

On Linux nodes, the kubelet also relies on reading cgroups and various system files to collect metrics.

On Windows nodes, the kubelet collects metrics via a different mechanism that does not rely on
paths.

There are also a few other files that are used by the kubelet as well as kubelet communicates using local Unix-domain sockets. Some are sockets that the
kubelet listens on, and for other sockets the kubelet discovers them and then connects
as a client.

> {{ <note> }}

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
{{< note >}}
```

> This article lists paths as Linux paths, which map to the Windows paths by adding a root disk

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page lists paths as Linux paths, which map to the Windows paths by adding a root disk
```
(this isn't a blog article)

`C:\` in place of `/` (unless specified otherwise). For example, `/var/lib/kubelet/device-plugins` maps to `C:\var\lib\kubelet\device-plugins`.

> {{ </note> }}

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
{{< /note >}}
```

When a device plugin registers itself, it provides its socket path for the kubelet to connect.

The device plugin socket should be in the directory `device-plugins` within the kubelet base
directory. On a typical Linux node, this means `/var/lib/kubelet/device-plugins`.

### Pod resources API

[Pod Resources API](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/device-plugins/#monitoring-device-plugin-resources)
will be exposed at the path `/var/lib/kubelet/pod-resources`.

### DRA and CSI plugins

The kubelet looks for socket files created by device plugins managed via [DRA](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/),
Device Manager, or storage plugins, and then attempts to connect
to these sockets. The directory that the kubelet looks in is `plugins_registry` within the kubelet base
directory, so on a typical Linux node this means `/var/lib/kubelet/plugins_registry`.

The types of plugins that can place socket files into that directory are:

- CSI plugins
- DRA plugins
- Device Manager plugins

(typically `/var/lib/kubelet/plugins_registry`).

## Locking

{{< feature-state state="alpha" for_k8s_version="v1.2" >}}

> Kubelet lock file, typically `/var/run/kubelet.lock`,
> can be configured using the `--lock-file` kubelet command line argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A lock file for the kubelet; typically `/var/run/kubelet.lock`. The kubelet uses this to ensure
that two different kubelets don't try to run in conflict with each other.
You can configure the path to the lock file using the the `--lock-file` kubelet command line argument.

If two kubelets on the same node use a different value for the lock file path, they will not be able to
detect a conflict when both are running.
```

## {{% heading "whatsnext" %}}

> - Kubelet [command line arguments](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet/).

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
- Learn about the kubelet [command line arguments](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet/).
```

We avoid writing kubelet with a capital K.

### Systemd unit settings

When kubelet is running as a systemd unit, some kubelet configuration may be declared
in systemd unit settings file. Typically it includes:

- command line arguments to [run kubelet](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet/)
- environment variables, used by kubelet or [configuring golang runtime](https://pkg.go.dev/runtime#hdr-Environment_Variables)

## State

### Checkpoint files for resource managers {#resource-managers-state}

All resource managers keep the mapping of Pods to allocated resources in state files.
State files are located in the kubelet's base directory, also termed the _root directory_
(but not the same as `/`, the node root directory). You can configure the base directory
for the kubelet
using the kubelet command line argument `--root-dir`.

Names of files:

- `memory_manager_state` for the [Memory Manager](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/memory-manager/)
- `cpu_manager_state` for the [CPU Manager](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/cpu-management-policies/)
- `dra_manager_state` for [DRA](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/)

> ### Checkpoint file for device manager {#device-manager-state}

Reviewer 2: It's still not very clear to me. Isn't device manager also a resource manager?

Dividing state checkpoint files into 3 categories looks a bit artificial to me. I'd prefer to see them together, or divided in 2 categories by the directory where they store their checkpoints.

How about this way of representing them?

|Directory|File|Manager|Note|
|---------|----|---------|----|
|Kubelet root directory, /var/lib/kubelet by default|`memory_manager_state`|[Memory Manager](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/memory-manager/)||
||`cpu_manager_state`|[CPU Manager](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/cpu-management-policies/)||
||`dra_manager_state`|[DRA Manager](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/)||
||`pod_manager_state`|Pod Manager|with [in-place Pod vertical scaling](https://github.com/docs/concepts/workloads/autoscaling/#in-place-resizing) enabled|
|/var/lib/kubelet/device-plugins|`kubelet_internal_checkpoint`|[Device Manager](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/device-plugins/#device-plugin-integration-with-the-topology-manager)||

Reviewer 8: I don't think Markdown is good at tables, and I don't believe embedding an HTML table into markdown is a good idea in this case.
The files/directories can be enumerated with bulletins which are clear enough and easy to maintain as website source.

Author: I split it separately as it is placed in a differnet location. I can merge back if you feel strongly about it

The device plugin socket should be in the directory `device-plugins` within the kubelet base
directory. On a typical Linux node, this means `/var/lib/kubelet/device-plugins`.

### Pod resources API

[Pod Resources API](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/device-plugins/#monitoring-device-plugin-resources)
will be exposed at the path `/var/lib/kubelet/pod-resources`.

### DRA, CSI, and Device plugins

The kubelet looks for socket files created by device plugins managed via [DRA](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/),
device manager, or storage plugins, and then attempts to connect
to these sockets. The directory that the kubelet looks in is `plugins_registry` within the kubelet base
directory, so on a typical Linux node this means `/var/lib/kubelet/plugins_registry`.

Note, for the device plugins there are two alternative registration mechanisms. Only one should be used for a given plugin.

The types of plugins that can place socket files into that directory are:

- CSI plugins
- DRA plugins
- Device Manager plugins

(typically `/var/lib/kubelet/plugins_registry`).

> ## Seccomp
> 
> Seccomp profile files referenced from Pods should be placed in `/docs/reference/node/seccomp/`.
> See [seccomp documentation](/docs/reference/node/seccomp/) for details.
> 
> Note, apparmor profiles are being loaded via operating system rather then referenced by the path.
> See [apparmor documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/security/apparmor/#specifying-apparmor-confinement).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Security profiles & configuration

### Seccomp

## Seccomp

Seccomp profile files referenced from Pods should be placed in `/var/lib/kubelet/seccomp`.
See the [seccomp reference](/docs/reference/node/seccomp/) for details.

### AppArmor

The kubelet does not load or refer to AppArmor profiles by a Kubernetes-specific path.
AppArmor profiles are being loaded via the node operating system rather then referenced by their path.
```
See [apparmor documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/security/apparmor/#specifying-apparmor-confinement).
```

---
content_type: "reference"
title: Files written and read by the kubelet
weight: 40
---

> {{< glossary_tooltip text="Kubelet" term_id="kubelet" >}} is mostly a stateless

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {{< glossary_tooltip text="kubelet" term_id="kubelet" >}} is mostly a stateless
```
We avoid writing kubelet with a capital K.

{{<glossary_tooltip text="container runtime" term_id="container-runtime">}} to retrieve
the current state of containers. Kubelet also relies on reading
cgroups and various system files to collect metrics. However, there are still a few other files
that are used by the kubelet.

## Files

### Configuration

#### Kubelet configuration files

The path to the kubelet configuration file can be configured
using the command line argument `--config`. kubelet also supports
[drop-in configuration files](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubelet-config-file/#kubelet-conf-d)
to enhance configuration.

#### Certificates

Certificates are typically located at `/var/lib/kubelet/pki`,
but can be configured using the `--cert-dir` kubelet command line argument.
Names of certificate files are also configurable.

#### Systemd unit settings

When kubelet is running as a systemd unit, some kubelet configuration may be declared
in systemd unit settings file. Typically it includes:

- command line arguments to [run kubelet](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet/)
- environment variables, used by kubelet or [configuring golang runtime](https://pkg.go.dev/runtime#hdr-Environment_Variables)

> ### State

Reviewer 2: Does Kubelet use any other files other than checkpoints to keep the state?

Author: no as far as I know. But please correct me if I am wrong

Reviewer 2: I'd propose to remove this section as all files are already mentioned in the `Checkpoint files` section.

Reviewer 2: ah, sorry, it's an upper level section.

#### Manifests

Manifests for static pods are typically located in `/etc/kubernetes/manifests`.
Location can be configured using the `staticPodPath` kubelet configuration option.

#### Checkpoint files

CPU managers and memory managers use state files to keep the mapping between
Pods and allocated resources. Files are named `memory_manager_state`
and `cpu_manager_state` and both located in the kubelet's root directory,
typically `/var/lib/kubelet`. Kubelet root directory can be configured

> using the kubelet command line argument `--root-dir`.

Reviewer 2: There are 3 more Kubelet checkpoints:
- `pod_status_manager_state`
- `dra_manager_state`
- `kubelet_internal_checkpoint` (device manager)

Author: added

### Sockets

Kubelet opens a few sockets as well as reading some other sockets.

#### Container runtime

Kubelet communicates with the container runtime using socket configured via the
configuration parameters:

- `containerRuntimeEndpoint` for runtime operations
- `imageServiceEndpoint` for image management operations

The actual values of those endpoints depend on the container runtime being used.

> #### Device plugins

Author: /cc @ffromani

Reviewer 2: DRA plugins work the same way as Device Plugins, so we can probably rename this section to `Device and DRA plugins`

Author: added

Kubelet exposes socket `/var/lib/kubelet/device-plugins/kubelet.sock` for

> various [Device Plugins to register](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/device-plugins/#device-plugin-implementation).

Reviewer 2: Almost the same registration mechanism is used by DRA and CSI plugins.

Author: added, thanks!

> When device plugin registers, it gives it's socket path to kubelet to connect.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
When a device plugin registers itself, it provides its socket path for the kubelet to connect.
```

The device plugin socket should be in the directory `/var/lib/kubelet/device-plugins`.

#### Pod Resources API

[Pod Resources API](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/device-plugins/#monitoring-device-plugin-resources)
will be exposed at the address `/var/lib/kubelet/pod-resources`.

### Utility

Kubelet lock file, typically `/var/run/kubelet.lock`,

> but configured using `--lock-file` command line argument.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
can be configured using the `--lock-file` kubelet command line argument.
```

- CSI plugins
- DRA plugins

> 

Reviewer 2: > The kubelet looks for socket files created by device or storage plugins

Should be:
The kubelet looks for socket files created by DRA or storage plugins

Reviewer: @bart0sh if we make that change, we'll need to teach what DRA and CSI are (in this page, I mean). The wording here is something I proposed to avoid needing to do that.

Reviewer 2: @sftim I was mainly worrying about `device or storage plugins`, which may make users think that `/var/lib/kubelet/plugins_registry` is used by [device plugins](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/device-plugins/).

Author: changed wording
